---
title: LeetCode 270 & 272
description: LeetCode Closest Binary Search Tree Value
categories:
 - LeetCode
 - Tree
tags:
 - LeetCode
 - Tree
---

# LeetCode 270 Closest Binary Search Tree Value

## Question
>Given a non-empty binary search tree and a target value, find the value in the BST that is closest to the target.<br />
> <strong>Note: </strong>
>1. Given target value is a floating point.<br />
>2. You are guaranteed to have only one unique value in the BST that is closest to the target.

## Answer

JavaScript Solution
{% highlight javascript linenos %}
var closestValue = function(root, target) {
    let minV = null, minDif = Infinity, node = root;
    while (node) {
        let dif = Math.abs(node.val - target);
        if (dif === 0) return node.val;
        if (dif < minDif) {
            minDif = dif;
            minV = node.val;
        }
        if (target < node.val) node = node.left;
        else node = node.right;
    }
    return minV;
};
{% endhighlight %}

Time: O(logn); <br />Space: O(1);


# LeetCode 272 Closest Binary Search Tree Value II

## Question
>Given a non-empty binary search tree and a target value, find k values in the BST that are closest to the target.<br />
> <strong>Note: </strong>
>1. Given target value is a floating point.
>2. You may assume k is always valid, that is: k ≤ total nodes.
>3. You are guaranteed to have only one unique set of k values in the BST that are closest to the target.
> <strong>Follow up: </strong>
>Assume that the BST is balanced, could you solve it in less than O(n) runtime (where n = total nodes)?


## Answer

Use two stack to store the predecessors and successors. On the top of the stack is the nearest predecessor/successor.

Time: O(klogn); <br />Space: O(logn);

C++ Solution
{% highlight c++ linenos %}
vector<int> closestKValues(TreeNode* root, double target, int k) {
    vector<int> res(k);
    stack<TreeNode*> pred;
    stack<TreeNode*> succ;
    int index = 0;
    
    TreeNode* cur = root;
    while (cur) {
        if (target <= cur->val) {
            succ.push(cur);
            cur = cur->left;
        } else {
            pred.push(cur);
            cur = cur->right;
        }
    }
    
    while (index < k) {
        if (succ.empty() && pred.empty()) {
            break;
        } else if (succ.empty()) {
            res[index] = getPredecessor(pred);
        } else if (pred.empty()) {
            res[index] = getSuccessor(succ);
        } else if (abs(pred.top()->val - target) < abs(succ.top()->val - target)) {
            res[index] = getPredecessor(pred);
        } else {
            res[index] = getSuccessor(succ);
        }
        ++index;
    }
    return res;
}
int getPredecessor(stack<TreeNode*>& st) {
    TreeNode* top = st.top();
    st.pop();
    TreeNode* p = top->left;
    while (p) {
        st.push(p);
        p = p->right;
    }
    return top->val;
}
int getSuccessor(stack<TreeNode*>& st) {
    TreeNode* top = st.top();
    st.pop();
    TreeNode* p = top->right;
    while (p) {
        st.push(p);
        p = p->left;
    }
    return top->val;
}
{% endhighlight %}

JavaScript Solution
{% highlight javascript linenos %}
Array.prototype.top = function() {
  return this.length === 0 ? null : this[this.length - 1];
}
Array.prototype.empty = function() {
  return this.length === 0;
}
var closestKValues = function(root, target, k) {
  let preStack = [], sucStack = [];
  let res = [];
  let cur = root;
  const getPre = () => {
      let top = preStack.pop();
      let node = top.left;
      while (node) {
          preStack.push(node);
          node = node.right;
      }
      return top.val;
  }
  const getSuc = () => {
      let top = sucStack.pop();
      let node = top.right;
      while (node) {
          sucStack.push(node);
          node = node.left;
      }
      return top.val;
  }
  
  while (cur) {
      if (target <= cur.val) {
          sucStack.push(cur);
          cur = cur.left;
      } else {
          preStack.push(cur);
          cur = cur.right;
      }
  }

  while (k > 0) {
      
      if (sucStack.empty() && preStack.empty()) {
          break;
      } else if (sucStack.empty()) {
          res.push(getPre());
      } else if (preStack.empty()) {
          res.push(getSuc());
      } else if (Math.abs(target - preStack.top().val) < Math.abs(target - sucStack.top().val)) {
          res.push(getPre());
      } else {
          res.push(getSuc());
      }
      --k;
  }
  return res;
};
{% endhighlight %}



