---
title: LeetCode 271
description: LeetCode Encode and Decode Strings
categories:
 - LeetCode
 - String
tags:
 - LeetCode
 - String
---


# Question
>Design an algorithm to encode a list of strings to a string. The encoded string is then sent over the network and is decoded back to the original list of strings.<br />
>Machine 1 (sender) has the function:
```c++
string encode(vector<string> strs) {
  // ... your code
  return encoded_string;
}
```
>Machine 2 (receiver) has the function:
```c++
vector<string> decode(string s) {
  //... your code
  return strs;
}
```
>So Machine 1 does:
```c++
string encoded_string = encode(strs);
```
>and Machine 2 does:
```c++
vector<string> strs2 = decode(encoded_string);
```
> `strs2` in Machine 2 should be the same as `strs` in Machine 1.<br />
>Implement the encode and decode methods.
> <strong>Note:</strong><br />
> 1. The string may contain any possible characters out of 256 valid ascii characters. Your algorithm should be generalized enough to work on any possible characters.
> 2. Do not use class member/global/static variables to store states. Your encode and decode algorithms should be stateless.
> 3. Do not rely on any library method such as eval or serialize methods. You should implement your own encode/decode algorithm.

# Solutions

<br />
Time: O(n);<br />Space: O(1);

## C++

{% highlight c++ linenos %}
    // Encodes a list of strings to a single string.
    string encode(vector<string>& strs) {
        string res = "";
        for (string s: strs) {
            res += to_string(s.length()) + '@' + s;
        }
        return res;
    }

    // Decodes a single string to a list of strings.
    vector<string> decode(string s) {
        vector<string> res;
        int head = 0;
        while (head < s.length()) {
            int po = (int) s.find('@', head);
            int len = stoi(s.substr(head, po - head));
            head = po + 1;
            res.push_back(s.substr(head, len));
            head += len;
        }
        return res;
    }
}
{% endhighlight %}

## JavaScript Solution

{% highlight javascript linenos %}
/**
 * Encodes a list of strings to a single string.
 *
 * @param {string[]} strs
 * @return {string}
 */
var encode = function(strs) {
    return strs.reduce((res, cur) => {
        return res += "" + cur.length + '@' + cur;
    }, "");
};

/**
 * Decodes a single string to a list of strings.
 *
 * @param {string} s
 * @return {string[]}
 */
var decode = function(s) {
    let res = [];
    let head = 0;
    while (head < s.length) {
        let po = s.indexOf('@', head);
        let len = parseInt(s.substr(head, po - head));
        head = po + 1;
        res.push(s.substr(head, len));
        head += len;
    }
    return res;
};



/**
 * Your functions will be called as such:
 * decode(encode(strs));
 */
{% endhighlight %}


